README.md, before:

# Simple ground filtering demonstration in ROS and RVIZ

In this demo using RVIZ, a vehicle is approaching an obstacle. We preprocess the LiDAR point clouds by distinguishing non-ground obstacles (shown in pink) from ground (shown in orange).

Check the youtube videos for rviz recordings:

* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1cPNjVveXvY
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfEXqDKbUt0


### Environment

Linux Ubuntu 18.04 ROS Melodic, you are free to use other Ubuntu and ROS distributions, however they are not yet tested here.

For all terminals you open later, assuming you have sourced ros melodic by default, otherwise:

> echo "source /opt/ros/melodic/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc

### Build

> mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src

> cd ~/

> git clone https://github.com/tompoek/ground_filter

> cp -r ~/ground_filter ~/catkin_ws/src/

> cd ~/catkin_ws/

> catkin_make

### Run

open terminal 1:

> roscore

open terminal 2:

> rosrun rviz rviz

in rviz UI, import the provided rviz config: rviz.rviz

open terminal 3:

> source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash

> rosrun ground_filter_pkg ground_filter

open terminal 4:
> curl -o lidar_bagfile.bag https://drive.google.com/uc?id=1I2Eg-6Dl1GyrdVGBubHunHwM2Rh9ea3n

> rosbag play lidar_bagfile.bag

Switch to rviz UI and see the play (/ground and /nonground in different colours). You should be able to reproduce everything as in the recordings. ENJOY!


### List of Assumptions:

- Any debris (not large rocks) is considered part of ground.
- No big objects on both sides (lidar points are noisy at |Y| > 1m).

I have been able to fast implement ground filter algorithms by only using the Z coordinates info and comparing to a threshold.

Commit message:

Migrate the project from ROS1 Melodic to ROS2 Humble

README.md, after:

# Simple ground filtering demonstration in ROS2 and RViz2

In this demo using RViz2, a vehicle is approaching an obstacle. I preprocess the LiDAR point clouds by distinguishing non-ground obstacles (shown in pink) from ground (shown in orange).

Check the youtube videos for rviz recordings: (videos below were ROS1 Melodic implementation)

* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1cPNjVveXvY
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AfEXqDKbUt0

### Environment

Linux Ubuntu 22.04 ROS2 Humble, you are free to use other Ubuntu and ROS2 distributions, be sure to source the correct setups.

For all terminals you open later, assuming you have sourced ros2 by default, otherwise:

> echo "source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash" >> ~/.bashrc

### Build

> mkdir -p ~/ros2_ws/src

> cd ~/ros2_ws/src/

> git clone https://github.com/tompoek/ground_filter

> cd ~/ros2_ws/

> colcon build --packages-select ground_filter_pkg

### Run

In terminal 1:

> rviz2

Once rviz2 UI is opened, import the provided rviz2 config: rviz.rviz

In terminal 2:

> . install/setup.bash

> ros2 run ground_filter_pkg ground_filter

In terminal 3:

> curl -o lidar_bagfile.bag https://drive.google.com/uc?id=12DoGBU6A0A8leMyhqwXASGQqoOyRcbTR

> ros2 bag play lidar_bagfile.bag

Switch to rviz2 UI and see the replay (/ground and /nonground in different colours). You should be able to reproduce everything as in the recordings. ENJOY!


### List of Assumptions:

- Any debris (not large rocks) is considered part of ground.
- No big objects on both sides (lidar points are noisy at |Y| > 1m).

### Ongoing works:

- DONE: Use height (Z) thresholding to filter out ground.
- TODO: Make the z threshold tunable.
- TODO: Apply more advanced techniques / Use third party libs.
